## Higher Order Function
- In kotlin, higher-order functions are functions that can either take functions as parameters, returns a function or both.

### Function Types
- Function types represents the types of a function. Example, what are the types of parameters and return type.
- With the help of function types, the function can be treated as a value. This enable a function to be passed as an argument into other function and also enable to return a function from other functions.
- Syntax of function type
```
(A, B, C) -> R
```
- **A, B, C**: Input parameter types of the function.
- **R**: Return type of the function.

#### Example of Function Type:
- A function that takes two integers and returns a string would have the type:
```
(Int, Int) -> String
```
- A function with no parameters returning `Unit` would have the type:
```
() -> Unit
```


### Passing Functions as Parameters
- In kotlin, with the help of the function types a function can be passed as an argument.
```
fun calculate(a: Int, b: Int, operation: (Int, Int) -> Int): Int {
    return operation(a, b)
}

// Usage
val sum = { x: Int, y: Int -> x + y }
val result = calculate(5, 10, sum) // Pass a lambda
println(result) // Output: 15
```


### Returning Functions
- With function types, a function can return another function.
```
fun createMultiplier(multiplier: Int): (Int) -> Int {
    return { number: Int -> number * multiplier }
}

// Usage
val timesThree = createMultiplier(3)
println(timesThree(5)) // Output: 15
```


### Common Higher-Order Functions in Kotlin's Standard Library
- **`map`**: Applies a transformation to each element.
- **`filter`**: Filters elements based on a conditions.
- **`reduce`**: Combines elements into a single result.
- **`forEach`**: Iterates over each element.
- **`flatMap`**: Maps each element and flattens the result.

### Lambdas Expressions
- 