### Inline Functions
- In kotlin, inline functions are used to improve performances of high order functions.
- With lambda expressions, at runtime the lambda is converted into object and this object calls a function (a function where lambdas need to execute).
- With inline functions, no need to create extra memory for an object and perform function call overhead. At compile time, the lambda is converted into actual lambda code.

#### Syntax
```
inline fun functionName(parameters): ReturnType {
    // Function body
}
```

#### Example
- Without `inline`:
- Here, the lambda `{ x, y -> x + y }` in converted into an object at runtime and this object invoke the `operation` function.
```
fun calculate(a: Int, b: Int, operation: (Int, Int) -> Int): Int {
    return operation(a, b)
}

fun main() {
    println(calculate(3, 5) { x, y -> x + y }) // Output: 8
}
```

- With `inline`:
- In this case, the compiler convert the `operation` into actual lambda code. So, no need to convert lambda into an object and no need for function call overhead.
```
inline fun calculate(a: Int, b: Int, operation: (Int, Int) -> Int): Int {
    return operation(a, b)
}

fun main() {
    println(calculate(3, 5) { x, y -> x + y }) // Output: 8
}
```

#### Non-Local Returns
- As we know lambda is a `non-local return` which means when `return` is called on lambda expressions the enclosing functions is exit not he entire functions.
- Inline function is a `local return` function which means it exits the entire function.
- Example:
```
fun findFirstEven(numbers: List<Int>): Int? {
    numbers.forEach { // 'forEach' is inline
        if (it % 2 == 0) return it // Non-local return
    }
    return null
}

fun main() {
    println(findFirstEven(listOf(1, 3, 5, 4, 7))) // Output: 4
}
```
- The `return it` exits the `findFirstEven` functions, not just the lambda.
- This behaviour is allowed because `forEach` is an inline function.

#### Reified Type Parameters
- If we have a generic function with type parameters. If we want to perform operations at runtime such as type check or type casting we are unable to do it because the type information is not available for generic types.
- In kotlin, the `reified` keyword allows inline functions to perform operations on the type parameters at runtime, such as type check (`is T`) or casting.
- Normally, at runtime the type information for generic types are not available.
- Example: 
```
inline fun <reified T> checkType(value: Any): Boolean {
    return value is T // Allowed with reified
}

println(checkType<String>("Hello")) // true
println(checkType<Int>("Hello"))   // false
```

##### Key Features of `reified`
- Type Checks (`is` and `!is`)
- Casting (`as`)
- Retrieving the Class Type
```
inline fun <reified T> getClassType(): Class<T> {
    return T::class.java
}

println(getClassType<String>()) // class java.lang.String
```

##### Why Reified Requires Inline
- When a function is marked as `inline`, the compiler replaces the function call with the actual function body during compilation. This allows the compiler to substitute the generic type `T` with the actual type provided at the call site.

#### Crossinline and Noinline
- In kotlin, `crossinline` and `noinline` are modifiers that are used in lambda's parameter in inline function.
- These modifier controls how the parameters of lambda can be used.

##### Noinline
- It prevents lambda expressions from being inlined.
- Normally, inline functions inline all lambda parameters to optimize performance. However, sometimes you may not want a specific lambda to be inlined (e.g., if you plan to pass it to another function or store it in a variable).
- Use **`noinline`** when you don’t want a lambda to be inlined, allowing it to be treated as a normal function object for storage or reuse.
- Example: 
```
inline fun performOperation(noinline block: () -> Unit) {
    println("Start Operation")
    // Pass the lambda to another function
    anotherFunction(block)
    println("End Operation")
}

fun anotherFunction(action: () -> Unit) {
    action()
}
```
##### Crossinline
- It ensures lambda parameter cannot use a `non local return`.
- Use **`crossinline`** when you want to ensure a lambda doesn't return non-locally, which is critical for scenarios like threading or when calling lambdas in other contexts.

#### When to Avoid Inline Functions
-  **Large Function Bodies**: Inlining a large function increases the size of the compiled code (code bloat).
- **Multiple Lambdas with Noinline**: If most lambdas are marked `noinline`, inlining might not provide significant benefits.