## Data Classes
- In Kotlin, data classes are special kind of class that is designed to hold data.
- Pre defined functions are generated for the properties of defined in the primary constructor. These useful functions are: `equals()`, `hashCode()`, `toString()`, and `copy()`.
- If a data class explicitly define these predefined functions inside the class body, then these functions are not generated and the explicitly defined functions are used.
- Data classes reduce the amount of boilerplate code you need to write by auto-generating common methods.
- Data classes can extends other classes. (Implement Interfaces)

### Syntax of Data Classes
```
data class Person(val name: String, val age: Int)
```

### Requirements for Data Classes
- The primary constructor must have at least one parameter.
- All primary constructor must be marked as `val` and `var`.
- Data classes can't be abstract, open, sealed, or inner.

### Key Features of Data Classes
1. **`toString()` Methods**:
	-  It returns an string that contains all the properties of the class
2. **`equals()` and `hashCode()` Methods**:
	- It compare objects and to use the object in collections like sets or as keys in maps.
3. **`copy()` Method**:
	- The `copy()` function allows you to create a new object by copying an existing one, with the option to modify some properties.
4. **Component Functions (`componentN()`)**: 
	- The properties in a data class are automatically broken down into component functions (`component1()`, `component2()`, etc.) for use in destructuring declarations.

```
data class User(val name: String, val age: Int)

fun main() {
    val user1 = User("Alice", 25)

    // toString() - String representation of the object
    println(user1)  // Output: User(name=Alice, age=25)

    // equals() - Checking equality
    val user2 = User("Alice", 25)
    println(user1 == user2)  // Output: true

    // copy() - Creating a new object by copying an existing one
    val user3 = user1.copy(age = 30)
    println(user3)  // Output: User(name=Alice, age=30)

    // Destructuring declaration
    val (name, age) = user1
    println("Name: $name, Age: $age")  // Output: Name: Alice, Age: 25
}
```