## Jetpack Compose
- Traditionally, we use XML to build the UI for Android Apps. Now, there is a new approach to building UI using the Kotlin language. This new approach is called Jetpack Compose.
- Declarative Approach.
- It enables the developers to create UI programmatically and the UI changes based on the states.
- There is no need to create the UI separately and no need to link the separated UI into Java or Kotlin language.

### Core Concept
#### 1. Composable Function
- It is the UI building block of Jetpack Compose annotated with @Compose.
- These functions create UI.
- You cannot call a composable function from a non-composable function directly.
- Composable functions should be designed to depend on parameters and not maintain states internally. The state should be managed or hosted externally.
- Composable functions can be combined and nested to build complex UIs.
##### Lifecycle
1. **Initial Composition ->** The function runs for the first time to create the UI.
2. **Recomposition ->** The function reruns when its dependent state changes.
3. **Skip ->** Compose can skip recomposing the UI if nothing has changed.
4. **Dispose ->** The composable is cleaned up when no longer needed.

##### Best Practices
- **Keep Function Small**
	- Break down large UIs into smaller composable functions for better reusability and readability.
- **User Parameters**
	- Pass data and callback as parameters instead of maintaining states internally. 

#### 2. State Management
- Compose uses the reactive programming approach
- When states change the UI updates automatically.

#### 3. Modifier
- It is an immutable object that is used to modify a composable function.
- A modifier is a powerful tool that is used to decorate or modify the UI elements of the composable function.
- It is used to apply styling, layout adjustment, behavior, and interaction to composable functions.

##### Functionality
1. **Style ->**  Apply colors, padding, size, borders, and more.
2. **Layout ->** Control positioning, alignment, and size constraints.
3. **Interaction ->** Add click listeners, gestures, or focus changes.
4. **Behavior ->** Configure scrollable, draggable, or other interactive behaviors.

##### Common Modifier Functions
- Here are some commonly used modifier functions:
- Styling
	- **`padding(dp)`**, **`background(color)`**, **`border(borderStroke)`**
	- **`clip(shape)`**, **`fillMaxSize()`**
- Layout
	- **`size(width, height)`**, **`width(dp)`/`height(dp)`**, **`fillMaxWidth()`/`fillMaxHeight()`**
	- **`wrapContentSize()`**, **`align(alignment)`**
- Interaction
	- **`clickable { }`**: Adds a click listener to a composable.
	- **`focusable()`**: Makes the composable focusable.
	- **`draggable()`**: Adds drag behavior to a composable.
	- **`scrollable()`**: Enables scrolling behavior.

##### Modifier Chaining
- Modifiers can be chained together to apply multiple configurations to a composable. 
- The order of adding multiple modifiers is important as each modifier is applied in a sequenced manner.
```
Box(
    modifier = Modifier
        .size(100.dp)
        .background(Color.Gray)
        .padding(8.dp)
        .clickable { println("Clicked!") }
)
```

##### Combining Modifiers
- You can combine multiple modifiers using the `then` function if necessary
```
val redBoxModifier = Modifier.size(100.dp).background(Color.Red)
val blueBorderModifier = Modifier.border(2.dp, Color.Blue)

Box(
    modifier = redBoxModifier.then(blueBorderModifier)
)
```

##### Custom Modifiers
- If there is a style or behavior modifier that is used multiple times, you can create a custom modifier for these modifiers to remove the duplications of modifier.
```
fun Modifier.customPadding() = this.padding(16.dp).background(Color.LightGray)

@Composable
fun CustomModifierExample() {
    Text(
        text = "Custom Modifier",
        modifier = Modifier.customPadding()
    )
}
```

##### Best Practice
- Order Matters: Ensure the order of modifier chaining aligns with your intended result. For example, `padding()` applied after `background()` applies padding outside the background.
- **Reusable Modifiers:** Use custom modifiers for repeated styling or behavior.
- **Performance:** Avoid unnecessary modifiers to keep layouts lightweight.

