## Inheritance

- All classes in kotlin are derived from a common superclass `any`.
- A class `any` has three methods `equals()`, `hashCode()`, and `toString()`. Thus, these methods are defined for all Kotlin classes.
- By default, Kotlin classes are final they can't be inherited. To make a class inheritable, mark it with the `open` keyword.
- If the derived class has a primary constructor, the base class must be initialized first in that sub class's primary constructor.
- If the derived class has no primary constructor, each of its secondary constructor has to initialize the base class constructor by using the `super` keyword. In this case the derived class secondary constructor can call different constructors of a base class.
  ```
  class MyView : View {
    constructor(ctx: Context) : super(ctx)

    constructor(ctx: Context, attrs: AttributeSet) : super(ctx, attrs)
  }
  ```

#### Overriding methods
- Kotlin requires explicit modifier for all overridable members.
- In order, to override a function from base class, that function must be `open` and the derived class must explicitly define the `override` modifier.
- If the modifier is not define explicitly the compiler will complain.
- Declaring a method with same signature is not allowed in sub class or derived class.
- Final class is a class without `open` modifier.
- A member marked with `override` is `open` itself. So it may be override in to further subclasses. In order to stop further re-overriding use `final` keyword.
  ```
  open class Rectangle() : Shape() {
    final override fun draw() { /*...*/ }
  }
  ```

#### Override Properties
- The overriding also works with properties the same way it works with the methods.
- Properties declared on a superclass that are then redeclared on a derived class must be prefaced with `override`
  ```
  open class Shape {
    open val vertexCount: Int = 0
  }

  class Rectangle : Shape() {
    override val vertexCount = 4
  }
  ```
- You can also override a `val` property with a `var` property, but not vice versa. This is allowed because a `val` property essentially declares a `get` method, and overriding it as a `var` declares a `set` method in the derived class.
- Note that you can also use the `override` keyword as part of the property declaration in a primary constructor.

##### Derived class initialization order
- During the construction of a new instance of a derived class, the base class initialization is done as the first step which means that it happens before the initialization logic of the derived class.
-  When the base class constructor is executed, the properties declared or overridden in the derived class have not yet been initialized.

#### Calling the superclass implementation
- A derived class can call it's super class members by using `super` keyword.
- If a derived class has a inner class, and that inner class wants to access the members of the  supper class, then a `super` keyword with superclass name is used like `super@superClassName`

#### Overriding rules
- If a class inherit multiple implementation of a same member, the derived class must override the member and provide the same implementation. Multiple implementation means a class derived from a class and implement an interface.
- In order to differentiate overridden member, the base class need to define the class name with `super` keyword `super<ClassName>.member`. 

  ```
  open class Rectangle {
    open fun draw() { /* ... */ }
  }

  interface Polygon {
      fun draw() { /* ... */ } // interface members are 'open' by default
  }

  class Square() : Rectangle(), Polygon {
    // The compiler requires draw() to be overridden:
    override fun draw() {
        super<Rectangle>.draw() // call to Rectangle.draw()
        super<Polygon>.draw() // call to Polygon.draw()
    }
  }
  ```
  