
## Object Declarations and Expressions
- In kotlin, `object` is a powerful feature that is used to create singleton, anonymous classes and companion object.
- Object declarations is used to create singleton instance.
- Object expressions is used to create anonymous one time object.

### Object Declarations
- It is used to create singleton instance of an object.
- It is used to define a globally accessible, thread-safe instance with static-like members.
- It can have parent classes. It can inherit from existing classes and interface.
- They are not expressions, object declarations cannot be assigned into another variable.
- Object declaration cannot be local. It cannot be defined directly inside a function. 
- Object declaration can be nested within object declaration and non-inner class (all classes except inner class).
```
// Declares a Singleton object to manage data providers
object DataProviderManager {
    private val providers = mutableListOf<DataProvider>()

    // Registers a new data provider
    fun registerDataProvider(provider: DataProvider) {
        providers.add(provider)
    }

    // Retrieves all registered data providers
    val allDataProviders: Collection<DataProvider> 
        get() = providers
}
```

#### Data Object Declaration
- A type of singleton object with similar features of data classes.
- If a class is related to data oriented behaviour and you want to make this class singleton then make the object declaration as data object declarations.
- It provides built it implementations of `toString`, `equals`, and `hashCode`.
- When you required equality and data related behaviour in a singleton then data object declaration is used.
- Choose **`object`** when you want functional singletons (utility methods, constants, or configuration) and **`data object`** when you need equality and data-oriented behavior in a singleton.

#### Differences between data objects and data classes
- there are some functions that are not generated for a `data object`:
	- No `copy()` function.  Singletons restrict the instantiation of a class to a single instance, which would be violated by allowing copies of the instance to be created.
	- No `componentN()` function.

#### Use data objects with sealed hierarchies
- Using `data objects` with sealed classes is a concise and type-safe way to model fixed states or outcomes, such as API results or UI states. It combines the benefits of `data classes` (for equality and data representation) with the simplicity of `object` (singleton behavior).
```
sealed interface ReadResult
data class Number(val number: Int) : ReadResult
data class Text(val text: String) : ReadResult
data object EndOfFile : ReadResult

fun main() {
    println(Number(7)) 
    // Number(number=7)
    println(EndOfFile) 
    // EndOfFile
}
```


### Companion Object
- It is used to define static like properties and functions for a class.
- It act like a singleton associated with a class instance.
- Only one instance of the companion object exists per class.
- Functions and properties within a companion object can be accessed using the class name, similar to `static` members in Java.
- Companion objects can access the private properties and functions of the enclosing class.
- Often used to implement factory patterns.
- You can define extension functions on the companion object itself.
- It commonly used for factory methods, defining constant, static utilities and extending functionality.
```
class MyClass {
    companion object {
        val name = "Companion Example"
        fun greet() = "Hello from Companion Object"
    }
}

```

#### Named Companion Objects
- You can assign a name to a companion object, which can be useful for readability or when there are multiple companion objects in different classes.
- If you don't provide a name for the companion object, Kotlin uses the default name `Companion`.
```
class MyClass {
    companion object {
        val id = 42
    }
}

fun main() {
    println(MyClass.Companion.id) // Output: 42
}

```
- If you define a name, you use it the companion name explicitly.
```
class MyClass {
    companion object Factory {
        fun create() = MyClass()
    }
}

fun main() {
    val instance = MyClass.Factory.create()
}
```


#### Factory methods on Companion Objects
- Companion objects are often used to create instances of a class in a controlled way.
```
class User private constructor(val name: String) {
    companion object {
        fun create(name: String): User {
            return User(name)
        }
    }
}

fun main() {
    val user = User.create("Alice")
    println(user.name) // Output: Alice
}

```

#### Extensions on Companion Objects
- You can add extensions to companion objects.
```
class MyClass {
    companion object {
        fun originalFunction() = "Original Function"
    }
}

fun MyClass.Companion.extendedFunction() = "Extended Function"

fun main() {
    println(MyClass.originalFunction()) // Output: Original Function
    println(MyClass.extendedFunction()) // Output: Extended Function
}
```

#### Usage:
- Factory methods.
- Defining constants.
- Static utilities.
- Extending functionality.


### Object Expressions
- It create an instance of a class without specifying the class name.
- These classes are for one time use only. The object exists only within the block where it is defined.
- These classes are also called anonymous object or class because they are defined by an expressions not by class name.
- No singleton behaviour. Unlike `object declarations`, each `object expression` creates a new instance.
- An object expression can extend a class and/or implement multiple interfaces.
- Object expressions start with the `object` keyword.
- If the object doesn't extend any classes or implement interfaces, you can define an object's members directly inside curly braces after the `object` keyword.
```
val helloWorld = object {
    val hello = "Hello"
    val world = "World"
    // Object expressions extend the Any class, which already has a toString() function,
    // so it must be overridden
    override fun toString() = "$hello $world"
}

print(helloWorld)
// Hello World
```

#### Implementing an Interface
- Object expressions are often used to implement interfaces for specific use cases, such as event listeners.
```
interface ClickListener {
    fun onClick()
}

fun main() {
    val buttonClickListener = object : ClickListener {
        override fun onClick() {
            println("Button clicked!")
        }
    }

    buttonClickListener.onClick() // Output: Button clicked!
}
```

#### Extending a Class
- An object expression can also extend a class.
```
open class Animal {
    open fun sound() = "Generic animal sound"
}

fun main() {
    val dog = object : Animal() {
        override fun sound() = "Woof!"
    }

    println(dog.sound()) // Output: Woof!
}
```
#### Note: Object expressions can extent a class and implement an interface at a same time.

#### Object Expressions and Scope
- Object expressions are **not reusable** and exist only in the context where they are created.

#### Usage:
- **Object expressions** are great for creating **temporary, one-time-use objects**.
- They are particularly useful for **event handling**, **callbacks**, or **quickly overriding behavior**.
