
## Sealed Classes and Interface
- Sealed classes are powerful feature in kotlin that is used to restrict the class inheritance into specific sets of subclasses defined within a same file.
- Sealed classes have a limited or fixed sub classes. 
- These sub classes must be defined in the same file where sealed class is defined.
- The key benefits of sealed classes is that it ensure type safety, as Kotlin can know all the types of sub classes at compile time
- Sealed classes holds the states (properties).

```
sealed class Response

data class Success(val data: String) : Response()
data class Failure(val error: Throwable) : Response()
object Loading : Response()

fun handleResponse(response: Response) {
    when (response) {
        is Success -> println("Data received: ${response.data}")
        is Failure -> println("Error occurred: ${response.error.message}")
        Loading -> println("Loading data...")
    }
}
```

- You can use enum classes within your sealed classes.
### Sealed classes are best used for scenarios when:
- Limited class inheritance is desired: You have a predefined, finite set of subclasses that extend a class, all of which are known at compile time.
- Type-safe design is required: Safety and pattern matching are crucial in your project. Particularly for state management or handling complex conditional logic.

### Constructor in Sealed Classes:
- A sealed class itself is an abstract class and cannot be initialized. It can have a constructor but this constructor is not used for creating the instance of sealed class but it's subclasses uses it.
- Constructors of sealed classes can have one of two visibilities `protected` (by default) or `private`
```
sealed class Error(val message: String) {
    class NetworkError : Error("Network failure")
    class DatabaseError : Error("Database cannot be reached")
    class UnknownError : Error("An unknown error has occurred")
}

fun main() {
    val errors = listOf(Error.NetworkError(), Error.DatabaseError(), Error.UnknownError())
    errors.forEach { println(it.message) }
}
// Network failure 
// Database cannot be reached 
// An unknown error has occurred
```

### Sealed Classes vs Enum
- Both **enums** and **sealed classes** in Kotlin are used to represent a restricted set of values or types
- Enum have a fixed set of constant values
- Sealed classes can have different types of data
- Enum have single instance type of data
- Sealed classes have multiple instances
- In short, sealed classes is more in detail than enum.
### Sealed Classes vs Abstract Classes
- Sealed class can only be subclassed within the same file while abstract class subclassed from any file.
- Sealed class represent restricted type hierarchies while abstract class represent generic hierarchies.
- Sealed class can have data classes, object declarations, and regular classes while abstract class used with normal classes.

# TODO - Sealed Interface?